Add Installation Instructions (#22)
cyberbotics/epuck_ros2: installation/README.md

# ROS2 Installation

Currently, we provide two ways to install ROS2 and `epuck_ros2` e-puck:
- [Easy and recommended](#using-pi-puck-image): Using the given SD card image with ROS2 and `epuck_ros2` preinstalled.
- [Hard](#fresh-ros2-installation): Fresh ROS2 installation on top of [Raspberry Pi OS (based on Debian Buster)](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/).

---

## Using Pi-puck Image
This is the recommended way of installing ROS2 on Pi-puck as all ROS2 compilation issues are resolved by us.
Moreover, this is very fast as you don't have to wait for the compilation process to finish.
It is enough to download our image and burn it to SD card that has to be at least 8GB.
To burn the image on the SD card you can use the following command on Linux:
```bash
dd bs=4M if=path_to_pi_puck_image.img of=/dev/sdX conv=fsync
```

> It is very important to correct the output device, it is usually named as `/dev/sdb` (not `/dev/sdb1`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very important to provide a correct output device name, it is usually `/dev/sdb` (not `/dev/sdb1`).
```

To check whether the block device is the one associated with the SD card you can run before inserting the SD card `ls /dev/sd*`, then insert the SD card and run the same command again and compare the output.

> For, more detailed instructions on how to burn an image to the SD card for different OS' you can check the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed instructions on how to burn an image to the SD card for different operating systems you can check the following links:
```

> > Detailed instructions about burning SD card for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Detailed instructions for burning SD card on:
```

[Windows](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/windows.md),
[Mac](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/mac.md) and 
[Linux](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/linux.md)

### Wifi and SSH

> Once the image is burned on SD card you may want to configure wifi connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the image is burned on SD card you may want to configure the Wi-Fi connection.
```

> By default, Pi-puck with the provided image will try to connect to a wifi network with SSID `E-PUCK`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Pi-puck with the provided image will try to connect to a Wi-Fi network with the SSID `E-PUCK`.
```

> If you want to change the default behaviour or to add more networks you can add the networks to `/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf` (file located on the SD card).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the default behavior or to add more networks you can add networks to `/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf` (file located on the SD card).
```

For example:
```conf
network={
    ssid="my_network_ssid"
    psk="my_network_password"
    key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
}
```

> > Detailed instructions on wifi configuration can be found [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/wireless-cli.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Detailed instructions on Wi-Fi configuration can be found [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/wireless-cli.md).
```

At this point, you probably want to start the nodes from `epuck_ros2`.

> First, make sure that your pi-puck and computer are connected to the same local network.

Reviewer: The spelling of pi-puck is not consistent across this documentation, it is sometimes Pi-puck, sometimes pi-puck.

You can ping the pi-puck using:
```
ping raspberrypi.local
```
Or, if your device doesn't support `mDNS` you will need to use `nmap` to [discover pi-puck's IP address](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ip-address.md).

Then, connect to the pi-puck via SSH:
```
ssh pi@raspberrypi.local
```
with `raspberry` as a default password.

> More about SSH and Raspberry Pi can be found [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/).

> ROS2 installation is located in `/home/pi/ros2_ws`, so you can navigate inside and start `epuck_ros2` driver as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROS2 installation is located in `/home/pi/ros2_ws`, so you can navigate inside and start `epuck_ros2` driver with:
```

```bash
source install/local_setup.bash
ros2 launch webots_ros2_epuck2 robot_launch.py
```

---

## Fresh ROS2 Installation

> In certain use-cases, a user may prefer to install ROS2, `epuck_ros2`, configure the device tree and install dependencies manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certain use cases, you may prefer to install ROS2, `epuck_ros2`, configure the device tree and install dependencies manually.
```

This is way more complicated and time consuming than using the provided image, but it is the only way to install a ROS2 version other than the ones provided by us.
Please note that neither ARMv6 architecture, neither Debian (Raspberry Pi OS is based on Debian) are supported by ROS2 and therefore, you may need to manually solve the compilation issues.

> After the Raspberry Pi OS is booted and you have SSH connection please execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Raspberry Pi OS is booted and you have an SSH connection please execute the following command:
```

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cyberbotics/epuck_ros2/master/installation/ros-install.sh | sh
```
> Note that this script is in very early stage and it may fail.

> In case of failure try to understand which package has caused the error and check if the community on Github has the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of failure try to understand which package has caused the error and check if the community on GitHub has the solution.
```

Also, there are around 200 ROS2 packages and it will take a long time to compile.

The script will install dependencies, download ROS2 locally, compile and configure the device tree necessary for Raspberry Pi to communicate with the e-puck2 base.

### Creating Custom Image

> Once the installation is over, or you developed a custom node you may want to save the configuration and quickly distribute to the other robots, you can create your own image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the installation is complete, or you developed a custom node, you may want to save the configuration and quickly distribute it to the other robots by creating your own image.
```

> To achieve that, you can simply put the SD card in your computer and copy the content to `*.img`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve that, you can simply put the SD card in your computer and copy its content to a `.img` file:
```

```bash
dd if=/dev/sdX of=path_to_pi_puck_image.img
```
The image size will be equal (if expanded before) to your SD card size even though the content of the image is much smaller.

> To shrink the image use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To shrink the image, use the following command:
```

# ROS2 Installation

Currently, we provide two ways to install ROS2 and `epuck_ros2` e-puck:

> - Easy and recommended. Using the given SD card image with ROS2 and `epuck_ros2` preinstalled.
> - Hard. Fresh installation ROS2 installation on top of [Raspberry Pi OS (based on Debian Buster)](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Easy and recommended](#using-pi-puck-image): Using the given SD card image with ROS2 and `epuck_ros2` preinstalled.
- [Hard](#fresh-ros2-installation): Fresh ROS2 installation on top of [Raspberry Pi OS (based on Debian Buster)](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

---

```

## Using Pi-puck Image

> This is recommended way of installing ROS2 on Pi-puck as all ROS2 compilation issues are resolved by us.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the recommended way of installing ROS2 on Pi-puck as all ROS2 compilation issues are resolved by us.
```

Moreover, this is very fast as you don't have to wait for the compilation process to finish.
It is enough to download our image and burn it to SD card that has to be at least 8GB.

> To burn on the image on SD card you can use the following command on Linux:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To burn the image on the SD card you can use the following command on Linux:
```

```bash
dd bs=4M if=path_to_pi_puck_image.img of=/dev/sdX conv=fsync
```

> It is a very important device correct output device, it is usually named as `/dev/sdb` (not `/dev/sdb1`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is very important to correct the output device, it is usually named as `/dev/sdb` (not `/dev/sdb1`).
```

> To check whether the block device is associated with the SD card you can run before SD card is inserted `ls /dev/sd*`, insert SD card, run the same command again and compare the output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check whether the block device is the one associated with the SD card you can run before inserting the SD card `ls /dev/sd*`, then insert the SD card and run the same command again and compare the output.
```

> More detailed instructions on how to burn an image to SD card for different OS' you can on the following links:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For, more detailed instructions on how to burn an image to the SD card for different OS' you can check the following links:
```

> Detailed instructions about burning SD card for 
[Windows](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/windows.md),
[Mac](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/mac.md) and 
[Linux](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/linux.md)

### Wifi and SSH
Once the image is burned on SD card you may want to configure wifi connection.
By default, Pi-puck with the provided image will try to connect to a wifi network with SSID `E-PUCK`.
If you want to change the default behaviour or to add more networks you can add the networks to `/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf` (file located on the SD card).
For example:
```conf
network={
    ssid="my_network_ssid"
    psk="my_network_password"
    key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
}
```
> Detailed instructions on wifi configuration can be found [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/wireless-cli.md).

At this point, you probably want to start the nodes from `epuck_ros2`.
First, make sure that your pi-puck and computer are connected to the same local network.
You can ping the pi-puck using:
```
ping raspberrypi.local
```

> or if your device doesn't support `mDNS` you will need to use `nmap` to [discover pi-puck's IP address](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ip-address.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or, if your device doesn't support `mDNS` you will need to use `nmap` to [discover pi-puck's IP address](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ip-address.md).
```

Then, connect to the pi-puck via SSH:
```
ssh pi@raspberrypi.local
```
with `raspberry` as a default password.

> More about SSH and Raspberry Pi can be found [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/).

ROS2 installation is located in `/home/pi/ros2_ws`, so you can navigate inside and start `epuck_ros2` driver as:
```bash
source install/local_setup.bash
ros2 launch webots_ros2_epuck2 robot_launch.py
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

---

```

## Fresh ROS2 Installation
In certain use-cases, a user may prefer to install ROS2, `epuck_ros2`, configure the device tree and install dependencies manually.

> Even not recommended, this is the only way to install ROS2 version other than the ones provided by us.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is way more complicated and time consuming than using the provided image, but it is the only way to install a ROS2 version other than the ones provided by us.
```

Please note that neither ARMv6 architecture, neither Debian (Raspberry Pi OS is based on Debian) are supported by ROS2 and therefore, you may need to manually solve the compilation issues.

After the Raspberry Pi OS is booted and you have SSH connection please execute the following command:
```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cyberbotics/epuck_ros2/master/installation/ros-install.sh | sh
```
> Note that this script is in very early stage and it may fail.
In case of failure try to understand which package has caused the error and check if the community on Github has the solution.
Also, there are around 200 ROS2 packages and it will take a long time to compile.

The script will install dependencies, download ROS2 locally, compile and configure the device tree necessary for Raspberry Pi to communicate with the e-puck2 base.

### Creating Custom Image

> As the installation is over or you developed a custom node you may want to save the configuration and quickly distribute to the other robots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the installation is over, or you developed a custom node you may want to save the configuration and quickly distribute to the other robots, you can create your own image.
```

> To achieve that you can simply put the SD card in your computer and copy the content to `*.img`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve that, you can simply put the SD card in your computer and copy the content to `*.img`:
```

```bash
dd if=/dev/sdX of=path_to_pi_puck_image.img
```
The image size will be equal (if expanded before) to your SD card size even though the content of the image is much smaller.
To shrink the image use the following command:
```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Drewsif/PiShrink/master/pishrink.sh | sudo bash -s -- path_to_pi_puck_image.img
```

> Now, burn the `path_to_pi_puck_image.img` to other SD cards that will be used in order pi-pucks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, burn the `path_to_pi_puck_image.img` to other SD cards that will be used in other pi-pucks.
```

## Starting `epuck_ros2` on Boot
In most of the cases, ROS2 development will take place on your computer and ROS2 will take handle the communication between the local nodes and nodes on the pi-puck.

> In that scenario, you may want to execute `epuck_ros2` as soon as pi-puck boots without manual intervention.

Reviewer 2: Is this the case with the provided image or not?

Author: Currently, it is the case for both. Maybe we should start the driver on the boot in our image by default?

Reviewer 2: It's probably simpler for the user indeed.

> To this it is enough to populate `/etc/rc.local` with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve this, it is enough to populate `/etc/rc.local` with the following commands:
```
